So we have already created a data frame object.
Now let's see what are the attributes animate tones we can apply on top of it.
So we are going to act on this particular data from what we all created in the last video from this
particular and very dark data not see as we fight.
Now let's say we want to display some of the records.
So if I just do the f it will list.
It will display a lot of different course for me.
So there are total thirty first records and 30 from the end of the whole dataset.
It has displayed me because my default settings up since are local maximum rows I need to display like
a 60 because first 30 and the last 30 and maybe maximum column all the columns might be but instead
of that I just want to let's say display some few records on our favorite codes or attend a course or
to record strongly because I don't want to display every single thing.
So we have a provision for fundamentals like a head and head by default if you don't supply anything
it will return a fine course.
So fight back or only it will display let's say if you want to display just the right course so you
can just supply two.
So that is a cool record.
It has the right time.
Now you can change all those kinds of setting scene to future sex and not this particular cause and
by default whatever the data frame object will display the number of records that you can tweak around.
So far I mean we dealt this head matter you can control that.
How many total number of records you want to display now if you see here the original data from F and
what I want the output Rio got after playing this had matter you feel like it has crap like a two different
records or five different records in this particular case and it is just a return us but that is not
the case actually.
What would the data I guess extracted from your original data frame it as a return as the brand new
data frame object.
So let's see if I just assign it to your head and let me just execute it.
And if I just type Let's type the head.
This is also on a data frame so all those kinds of matters and tribute you can apply on the top of this
the F head.
They definitely object.
Also the same you can apply on top of what is the F data frame object.
Now all we've seen first fuel that goes from the starting of our data set let's say from the ending
of data set.
If you want to see a couple of records so far that we have of methods available later.
So by default it will return a fight across from the end of the dataset from the last.
So their total twenty two thousand five sixty one because indexing are starting from zero so we'll totally
lost to a finite quantity.
It has this.
Let's say you want to grab just the of course last three records only so it has a US to create records
and in both head and tail method will return as the brand new data object.
Now let's see some more matters and it reveals what we can apply.
So let's say you want to find what is the indexing value so we can use like index.
So indexing is nothing but individual rule has been reference with which particular number.
So yea the numbers are starting from zero.
So let's see what is index active will return us.
So it has returned as the range index Range Index kind of object was values are starting from zero and
stopping at thirty two thousand by sixty one in a step.
So every single record has been implemented by one number.
Let's say you want to find one of the values that contained of this particular order data frame object.
So it has a readiness number.
And each individual row it is a two dimensionality array so every single record it has a record on this.
Let's say you want to find what is the sweep of this data.
So how many total number of rows and how many total number of columns it would put it on.
So we know total thirty two thousand five sixty one total records added which we can get data from here
also.
But this is because the step is what steps is equal to 2.
In that case it is implemented by 2 and we have a total number of records will be half but the same
attribute to be not be calculated based on this index.
But how many total absolute number of records are available and each record has how many total columns.
Let's say you want to find the size so be our total zero point four million I would say zero point our
four hundred and eighty eight thousand four one five.
Total number of values that are really big.
So if you just multiply this to number let me the plate will get to see my guy to grow one so you can
see for 88 for the 1 5.
Let's say you want to find one other column names that are really in your dataset or you can use the
Column attribute.
So we our age world class.
So this is the exact same list object not video explicitly created.
All we want to find what is that data type of individual column so you can see the data.
Now if you see the original data frame objects or double what is nearly the same object.
So there are some attribute or I would say some columns are flawed in nature numeric in nature some
are like an a categorical or some either like or you could say string in nature.
So here it's a male female kind of thing.
So let's see.
While reading this particular dot Yes we.
How does bind us labor.
He has identified each individual column so far that we can get this idea from the data attribute.
So you can see the ages now in data 64.
World class is like an object because it's a string.
So FLN redesign Deja 60.
Now somehow if you feel that this band as library while reading this particular file it is not correctly
identified the data.
You can even change it.
So we'll see how to change this particularly that type in the future.
Because the sex is object by default it has taken the object but it has just to value like a male or
a female.
So we can even use done other data like a category and once we change the sex particularly sex column
in the category column in that category type of column.
So in that case we can see some memory also because we have just a newly weds that I really want.
So either it will be a male or a female.
So there is no hard requirement to write in every single records like I am.
And that is a four character is required in case a female is a six character is required.
So we can just encoded into two small numbers like a 0 1 0 1 kind of let's say you want to grab some
information related to this later.
So we have one in four matters that are available now.
It will return us that this is kind of data from object.
Its range indexes having a total thirty two thousand five sixty one entries and it is starting from
zero to thirty two thousand five sixty data.
While I'm having a total 15 column Saturday.
Now if you see here that age having a total two 32000 561 non null integer 64 bit kind of object.
So this particular ADR.
Giving us the information that how many.
Total number of records are available or values that I really want in each particular column.
So if you get to know about that even in some of the columns if you get the lesser number that means
some values that are missing.
But in this case we would total 32000 561 entries and that is the entry which is completely resembling
with every single column.
That means there is no missing value in our over as the last two information will give us like a detail.
So we'll total six column which has been identified like all integer 64 bit.
And there are nine column which is an object.
If you just count later how many total integer columns.
One two three four five and six and remaining all the objects and memory uses.
So while loading this data into memory it has occupied almost three point seven megabytes of space.
We can even get this detailed information from get
the tape and the score counts the same information we'll get Laker in data 64 bit kind of data they
feel our total six column and for object kind of data lately I went to the nine column so it has redone
as the CS kind of object.
So if you just compare it with what we are learning the last section that this this particular cities
it has written return.
So these are like data type and values are like how many total number of columns had available in your
data frame for that particular day today and the last one is like a detail so D-Day here in digits 64
bit is nothing but this 6 and 9 numbers because it is given us the cities and for that particular cities
also it has a Dennis that type objects so data type object that would see let's say you want to find
X's.
So we've already got this from the index and a column.
But if you just want to combine all those information we can use like axes.
So it will return as the total to objects.
So one is a Raleigh will objects which bill already got from the F docking next to the engine next and
another one is a index which is equivalent to the each individual column need.
Let's say you want to describe.
So what they were all the individual B's columns are available it will calculate all the statistical
function on the top of it.
So it has written as first of all the brand new data different object and we show total six individual
columns that are really well.
So this described function will calculate this at some of the statistical parameter are all individual
column which is having a data type it digit order it might be flawed also.
So we have a total count it has given us first then the mean value our average value of each individual
column standard deviation.
What is the minimum value for that particular column.
What is the maximum value and what is a right.
Or 25 percent.
Quite right in that twenty five percentage of value in your dataset having eight less than 20.
Now once you've got this information you can take a better.
This isn't that what you need to do next as a data scientist.
OK so we'll see in a couple of attributes then in matters we can apply directly on top of this data
frame kind of object.
So that's all about this video.
See in the next video.